welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's the 8th of march 2021
and as every every week we go over the
stuff that we've worked on the past week
and then discuss any open engine items
we might have um
i start with myself so i'm still on the
javascript
things um it's still the link to the
same pr as last
week what i did
is i improved again the p the
um code for js ipfc
ipfs unix fs so
now it's really using no old
style cids anymore and now i tried to
get it
into js ffs and also using
not what we call js ipaldi but it's just
using the
so-called block api although i'm not
sure it's really the ipfs block api
but it's basically just something where
you can put bytes and get bytes back
but this is currently all that unix fs
needs and uses
um yeah so that's a super simple
interface and i hope that
also other parts of um ipfs can then
just use
this thing instead of like a full block
service or ipld
and of course next is to keep
integrating it into
j into js ipfs
um i'm almost there i have about
i don't know something like six
six tests that don't run well and like
we have something like
like 300 tests also so it's like
getting there but no now they are
probably harder to beat debug
um and the idea is really that um
the from the ipfs side of things
you still interact with the old cids or
basically the cds you are used to
and then on the lower levels they get
converted and for example
unix fps will fully use the new cid
stuff
but on the outside servers it will still
be the outside
so if you use js ipfs it will just work
as as usual um that's at least like
for start when we then need to figure
out like is there a performance impact
do we want to do it like this
and details but first thing is like can
we actually make things working
um this is where i'm still at okay
then that's all from me next on my list
is
danielle
cool so um something i mentioned last
week is that i
i've been moving us to the codec deck pp
package that rod
wrote a while ago which is the dac baby
codec on top of ipld
prime because some libraries in ipfs and
ipld already use
ipld prime sort of but they use a
different dac bb codec called
go ipld prime proto and they both are
kind of compatible but they are not they
can't be used at the same time so we
have to choose one and use that
so the good news is that i i converted
gomerkaldag gocar and gograph sync
which were the only pieces of existing
software that used the other codec which
we can't use at the same time and that
all worked
fine they don't have a lot of tests
there was only one test that failed
but i figured i can you know can check
that out later
because we're not merging code just yet
and what i'm doing now is
wrangling all of that together into go
ipfs because hana does have a branch in
go ipfs that
switches to the go merkle dag that uses
go ipld prime
and she has four failing tests but
everything else works
so i added my stuff which is moving
everything to
um rods codec and more stuff fails and
i'm trying to debug that
um so yeah i still don't know what's um
what's failing or why it might be a
mistake i've made it might be something
that i misunderstood
it's kind of weird because i get the
same cids i
added debug prints in the codec nothing
is failing there are no errors
so i still have no clue why tests are
failing
and the tests that are failing are
giving me very useful error messages
like
failure nil or like failure not found
stuff like that
so it's very fun to debug and yeah
that's that's me i
i wish i could tell you what's wrong but
i think it's going to take me like
another day or so to figure out
what's wrong
but if anybody has any thoughts i would
love to hear them
thanks i i can only tell that on
javascript i also had those like
not found errors and like okay
yeah so it's the same on the javascript
side as well great
so next is eric
so i'm still in the trenches on trying
to upstream
some stuff from a couple weeks ago
already into go
multi-hash and surely it's close to
landing now
we're going to have a nice plug-in-ish
registration e
system so you can add multi-hashes to
the multi-hash library
without having to like patch the library
itself
and you'll be able to get hashes out and
they'll stream and all this stuff and
i'm pretty sure i talked about the why
in the last week's recording so i won't
do that again
but there's a pr um
we've fought through what seems like
hundreds of small details
in that vr already and i think there's
four left and
surely they will be done in a day or so
after that the lynx system pr is
is still out and it's pretty much just
chilling out waiting for that multi-hash
stuff
so i'm going to revisit that as soon as
we can merge the multi-hash changes
and it'll just remove a bunch of code
from that pr mostly and then
go ahead with that and none of the apis
will really change
um and then we've started having one
other
discussion in the last week that's
probably going to
cause a very rapid fire follow-up to the
link system pr
which is a discussion about if we want
to
have some api to let storage functions
say if they should be trusted
so basically if you're reading things
sometimes you have a storage pool where
if you have total control of the storage
pool and you trust that you're the only
one that can touch it and so on and so
forth and you put data into that storage
pool
and you hash that time then should we be
able to read that out and de-serialize
it and
not bother hashing it maybe sometimes
that's actually reasonable
right now we just don't have an api for
that you always check the hash when you
load things
but if you're really sure that that's
duplicate work then like okay maybe we
should be able to avoid that
so the question is where should we put
that api um
there's more than one possible thought
on that and there's a pr
with one option on it and
there's some other discussion on that pr
other ways we could do it so if anyone's
interested in that you can take a peek
and um yeah chris is
cool yeah um i think to give a quick
rundown of what the options are is we're
considering having like one big flag for
the entire
link system like okay if you're dealing
with this whole thing
then don't check things or if we should
complicate the api of the storage
functions to let them
say whether they should be trusted it's
just kind of deciding
like who should have this responsibility
next one is will
cool um i got uh busy with a bunch of
filecoin
issues debugging last week so not quite
as much but i figured i would update
some of the other uh ipld related things
that
uh they were both us looking at ipld and
ipfs got through last week
um there's a
ipld prime git codec that now
passes all of the round-trip tests like
it can
make ipld nodes off of all of the
get subtree within its own repository
and then
re-serialize them and they end up as the
same
sha-1 hashes and objects as they started
out with which is nice
the interfaces that uh
are coming for thinking about what
fetching uh ipfs objects
in a ipld prime native uh dialect looks
like uh is
that interface refined some last week uh
you can take a look at
um what it is now but i think it's
actually a much
more easy to use ergonomic interface
yeah it just has a callback instead of
two channels and this makes life
somewhat easier in terms of trying to
understand
who's in charge of closing channels and
why are there two channels and
etc um the other exciting thing
i think it was like on friday hannah was
able to get together
uh a go unix fs node um
ipl the prime representation adl of
what a unix fs node looks like
which is exciting because that gets us
another step towards having
sort of a bunch of these mutation type
things or uh this is especially used for
pathing
um because that's the the view of your
data that you want when you're trying to
do
various traversal empathic style things
so
things are falling into place there i
think that's
it for me can you
elaborate on that a little bit more um
sure
yeah if you don't mind
yeah uh okay so so the actual data is in
some sense dag tv data
right um so you've got these things with
links but when we
uh talk about the paths that we want the
paths that we have are
going to be based off of ipfs uh sorry
of
unix fs pads and which thinks of them as
maps with like name
to sub child of directory right
and if we just have dag tb data which is
probably
the codec that we initially would want
to load this data out of blocks as
we don't know how to path over it that
way so we need to interpret it as unixfs
and what we currently have in the ipld
format
version of ipfs is we have this sort of
extension where we take our sort of view
of a dag pv protobuf and we have this
other protobuf thing that we
that that we call a file system node
that is the unix fs sort of view and
then we have this custom
sort of pathing logic that's like oh
when you want to think of me as the map
i will expose my directories if i'm a
directory and sort of looks in it and
does some special pacing stuff
so we need some equivalent of that in
ipld prime to be able to still have
the ability to do this seemingly natural
thing of walking a directory tree
which is the thing that we do all the
time and so the question is how does
that work
right um and i think we're still
figuring out exactly how that works uh
because we've got you know the dag pb
node that is the thing that we are
loading out of disk
but then we also have this unix fs node
that is the thing we want to interact
with for
pathing style things and so is the deal
that we're going to
do an adl like thing are we going to
just sort of wrap it
when we do the pathing and get the back
uh are we going to have one thing that
is some horrible
hybrid amalgamation of both of these
things
or something else so that repo is a
first
pass it will likely evolve in terms of
what that actually means in terms of how
we do those
duality of these two things as we
as it meets actual code and utilization
that forces
you know us to figure out the path of
least resistance
so i don't have all the answers but i
have an implementation of some code
code at first test it later
now that's cool thanks
all right next one is rock hang on can i
take a little more information onto that
one before we move on yep sure
um we've also had some really outlandish
ideas in the last week um okay i'm
calling it outlandish it's my idea and i
think it's outlandish
so uh so
there are we'll just talked about how
we're probably
we're looking at using the adl concept
to
redefine the way that we're doing this
unix best stuff in a much simpler and
more coherent way
we hope so some of the responsibilities
that we might expect that to take on is
like
the translation from the low-level dag
pb
codec content to how we want to path
over it
and some of it will probably be taking
care of the
directory sharding hemp dish thing
whatever's going on there
and in taking care of those things it
does a bunch of the work but
something else that's interesting about
unix fs is that it's got
when you're walking over the directories
you've got these hemp like things
and then you've also got a bunch of
attributes and then you've got the jump
over the next content
so that means actually when you're doing
the pathing in
ipfs like over the wherever your address
is slash ipfs
files path here thing if you chunk that
all
up each one of those segments is doing
several things it's
jumping up through the hand and so
that's something we might do with this
adl
and it's doing the additional like dag
pb semantic translation thing
and then it's stepping through the
little attribute structure
and then it's going forward
so the outlandish idea
this week is maybe we can actually
represent all of these things with
two adls that look at the same data and
one of them could
just jump you through the hampt and then
it gives you the
the entries with the metadata and then
another one could do the hampton jump
and jump past the metadata and give you
the next full node
the second one would be interesting
because that would actually give you
all the way ipfs style pathing
with no additional magic and then you
could choose so that's the second one is
what this prototype is
it's jumping all the way yeah i believe
i believe so
but you might want both because if you
want to like get off the ride slightly
earlier and
see the metadata then you do so
um we'll see how that goes
thanks uh next one is rock
one simple i um
i i'm trying to help get some
this is ultimately about
getting some typescript network landed
in the jsi bfs
stuff and um and
part of that volca is doing some
integration of our newer
ipld javascript components over there
and there's there's just stuff going on
with
that sort of in that area and uh and it
means consuming some of our newer pieces
um but there's compatibility issues and
and we
we knew this would be a problem because
it's it's part of this um
es modules migration that the javascript
ecosystem is undergoing
where we have tried with our new
stuff to straddle that line much
more intentionally and be much more
future looking with it
but but we're still in the middle of
pain with it and so
we've gone one path but the ipfs team
with
um the edgier tools that they use for
all the
all the things they're testing and
bundling and everything
have chosen to use this tool called es
build which is a go
javascript compile thing and it doesn't
support export maps for ds modules
and so and we rely on export maps to
solve all our problems in the es modules
area
so um so our new staff doesn't work with
uh like the rest of the pl
javascript stack so we're just trying to
address that
and uh and and it's just it's just a
big whack-a-mole game and we knew this
would be the case because you fix it for
one bundler
and then another bundle of breaks
but and so i thought i had a solution
last week
merged in yesterday tried it out and it
wasn't a bundle of the broker was
actually the typescript compiler that
broke
so fixed one thing and the typescript
compiler broke
um but i think we've got a path to uh
well fixing that one but who knows what
else will pop up so
it might be a case of we'll get this
fixed and then someone will report
hey this is now broken in my
uh who knows what tool chain that
they're using
it's yeah it's a bit of chaos but
we'll move forward internally and see
what breaks out accidentally that's all
i didn't say that i really like yes
build for what that's worth
modulo apparently whatever issues you're
having with it
um yeah so uh one
one comment i i forgot to post on the
issue that um if you want
someone to test it with common.js
because they got like like
as i could do js ffs work i can test it
because i
actually do those things so i want to do
it today but forgot about it but
um i would really like that so what i'm
gonna
i think because the way michael set up
publishing for these things i can't
actually publish pre-releases for them
because
michael has the keys and everything's
published through github actions and
there's no way to do like a pre-release
but i think what i'll do is i'll get
i'll get a solution that i think works
actually just published
of js multi formats and then throw it
over to you to test on common js because
that is the missing piece of
um of the test coverage we really need
is is this consumable
through classic common js consumption
with the typescript integration and js
ipfs is the place where that all comes
together
yeah um i can also yeah i guess i can
also just point you
if you like to the because i have a pr
for
unix fs which which should do the trick
basically to just
basically take this br check it out
compile it and see if it works
i think great okay yeah
we can catch up after the call yeah um
cool
um let's see
[Music]
anything else
oh i have some notes down there from
someone that we have plenty of
repositories
uh who wants to comment on this one
yeah this is just a fun fact that i
wanted to make available um
somebody else working within the
entirety of all the stuff that protocol
lab supports so like
all the ipfs all the ipld all the lib
p2p all the other
things uh tried to just do a summary and
an exploration of like
how many repos are there across all of
these orgs that all these people are
contributing to
and the answer is in the hundreds it's
not even in the low hundreds
it's like 770
ish and then i think we discovered a
whole other organization that wasn't
actually fully counted under that report
so it's probably eight or nine hundred
or maybe more
um multifulness yeah yeah i think that
one was in there
but yes uh big numbers
so i was looking at an hour old recently
and still discovering repos that i was
like ah they're not on my mental stack
at all
but i i think i think collectively like
even this group
we could we could identify things in the
ipld org
that that we want just to archive or
deprecate
so if stewards is coming up with a
strategy for how to do that
i think we could pretty quickly make
that happen across the ipl.org it's just
that we don't have a
strategy right now so they're just in
limbo
yeah so that is okay are you going into
the
are you going into the repos that are in
people's personal
accounts that are totally dependent on
no i don't think we are not in the first
round of analysis good point though
this never happens in our stack
yeah that's cbg gen really a missing
piece
uh i think there there are surprising
numbers of
heavily relied upon repos and varying
states of disrepair that are still in
people's personal
accounts that are what conservatives
imagine just
watching lotus compile and seeing the go
dependencies and the rust dependencies
and all the
the usernames come up it's fascinating
because
like one's in there so
yeah i was going to say the goal mode of
lotus is actually very very interesting
feeling
cool uh didn't mean to give you more
work
no it's actually a really good
observation you're right i
like there are some things with my name
on it that's in the transit depths there
are some rod things that i know are in
our transitive depths in various places
there's some juan things like there are
plenty of
people name things
[Music]
cool
um is there anything else
people want to chat about or have
comments
no cool yeah no i
i was a a little bit i didn't quite
catch the details today and i haven't
really
figured it out from the github traffic
about the link system
stuff like the hold up on link system
and go multihash
mentioned it um eric but there seems to
be is it a conflict or just a
priority problem or a speed problem
what's going on here between
you eric and
will team and is that on path to be
resolved
so the link system stuff
was i wished it would have been done a
while ago but
in the process of trying to straighten
that out i drafted that whole thing
assuming that the go multihash library
was going to let me get a standard
library
hash with this interface that's been in
the go standard library since
literally forever and i found that it
doesn't
and that actually like really screwed
with the abstractions
and so at first i just like
absolutely bulldozed my way through it i
was like i'm going to replace this
entire thing with a simple
map from magic number to hash and it'll
be fine
and i did and it was fine mostly
but
some discussion ensued and we
collectively decided that we didn't want
to have a second system of that and so
we're going to try to upstream all of
that stuff into the go multihash repo
immediately
perhaps okay so transient dependency
well so when we tried to upstream things
we discovered more
things in that repo because that's one
of our like
oh half the commits are from like seven
years ago
sorts of repositories and it's just
things are being improved maybe some of
them aren't things that we necessarily
would have
prioritized if we
were more careful about scope expansion
it's getting there now okay it's
complicated though
there are a lot of interesting things
like
every time i think anyone in this team
has discussed anything about
multi-formats we're kind of surprised at
how quickly it gets out of hand right
like those magic numbers
they just so some of the stuff and go
multihash is like oh
yeah we have a function that checks if
this magic number is
uh the right magic number like is this
one that we know to be a multi-hash
well what does that mean does that mean
it has a constant in this repo does it
mean it has a constant in the csv
file over there does it mean we have an
implementation registered for it
and some of this code that's like seven
years old
just didn't make a distinction between
which of those things we might be
concerned about and now as i try to
implement this registry system that
actually
lets you register things on fly and like
not have infinite transit dependencies
all the time
now that distinction actually becomes
apparent in a way that it wasn't before
and so some of these old abstractions
are just like
suddenly we have to ask what is this
thing supposed to mean and does it
actually provide
value and when you ask does this provide
value of a function
that's been around for seven years and
nobody's ever questioned it well
you know it doesn't matter whether the
answer is yes or no the question is
tetchy no matter what
right yeah i mean i think it's also just
the
stepping up to a meta level it's it's
this
figuring out the reality of the tension
of what is it that
you know like
if product wants a prototype of
something in three weeks
and the reality is we're just like
it's tough to merge stuff and actually
do good release management and
and there's just different timelines for
things and we're gonna have to figure
out how we balance those and how we talk
about that
um and i think you know we'll be able to
point back to that at some point of like
um you know is the reality that as we
identify
these things that we need to have
projects that we can flip back and forth
between
to pick up unblocked threads um i think
we've been lucky
that for this ipl the an ipfs one
there's enough different things that
we're not blocked
like there are other pieces that need to
happen
um but especially for smaller scope
things
as we end up in there i think it's very
reasonable to say okay so
you know we did the engineering work but
now we need to expect two or three weeks
to to get this through steward review
which is you know
ten percent the author's time answering
comments but is just
you know a workload thing and so how do
we talk about that when we're talking
about the three weeks that a project
takes um
so i think there will be iteration on
figuring out what that means
um but i'm not unhappy that this came up
in
the beginning as a thing that we then go
back and point to of like okay what does
unblocked mean
yeah especially when you come to
something like multiformats that really
is
one of the biggest things here where we
there's such a conflict of visions but
also
a lack of clarity about the whole thing
and so if you once you start touching
into that then
it's probably not surprising that you
come away a little bit burnt and
needing to go deeper
and that's that's probably really good
that we have a stewardess team that can
own it as a larger collective i think
and i hope i hope that's um
working out well eric that you have
other people to lean on
to get that resolved
getting consensus is probably pretty
easy it's going to be a joke
all right i guess
if there's nothing else
then i close the meeting and goodbye
everyone and see you all again next week